# finalprojectaudio
Repository for the audio component of my final project.

I'm planning to edit a song so that when the character's in the animation presses a button, a new part of the song plays, changing the colors on the screen as well as the character's emotions (ex. red=angry, blue=sad). There isn't really a deeper meaning here, we just thought it would be cool and wanted to have fun with our final project. 

What I've done with the audio for our final project is take the song "Sound & Color" by Alabama Shakes and make cuts to represent when the character presses the button. The reason I wanted to use this song specifically, other than it being a really cool, upbeat song, is that it's literally called "Sound & Color," which is exactly what our animation is. I thought that was a cool way of tying together the visual and audio mediums we're working with. 

Before the song begins, you hear the sound of footsteps, which I had recorded from the audio unit. This will play when the character walks onto the screen. I picture them walking in from the left because that aligns with the left-to-right visual flow that we learned about in the visual unit, so I panned the sound to the left. Jin Jin and I are planning to have the screen start dark, and the first time the button is pressed it turns to white. The cuts in my audio mark the different times the button is pressed and the changing visuals/colors as a result. In the beginning, the cuts are not continuous (meaning there are gaps in sound), but they become continuous by the end. 

I tried to edit the sounds to reflect the different colors and emotions they represent. For example, the second sound switches the color scheme to red. Consequently, our character becomes angry. For this moment, I amplified it dramatically, pitched it down three whole steps, and then reversed the clip I used. I wasn't sure how to exactly evoke anger through Audacity effects, but I'm hoping that when paired with the visuals it has the intended effect on the audience. Speaking of the combination of audio and visuals to create effect, this project has made me think a lot about how combining and synthesizing multiple mediums expands a work's affordances. Like I explained below, I didn't have to make the audio alone communicate the project's meaning to the audience because I knew it would work with the other medium- the visuals- to produce an effect. However, as affordances increase, it may become harder to manage each individual medium. 

Our final animation is fittingly titled "The Sound of Color." Even in the title itself, "The Sound of Color" very literally explores the relationship between audio and visual mediums and the affordances of that relationship. We hope you enjoy viewing it as much as we enjoyed composing it!
